1-2 Answer the following questions (the information can be found in e.g. the RFCs that describe DNS).
a) What is an authoritative name server? What is its role in DNS.
    It provides answers to DNS queries, for example a mail servers IP or a web sites IP.
    It only provides answers for queries about domain names that has been configured by a
    system administrator on the system.

    It's role is to give answers to queries for specific domains.

b) What is the difference between a domain and a zone.
    A zone is a portion of a domain, for example the domain facebook.com contains
    all the data for all of facebook sub-domains but the zone facebook.com only contains
    information about facebook.com, not for example dev.facebook.com.

    It is however possible for the zone facebook.com to contain data for the subdomains
    if the subdomains haven't been delegated to other servers.

c) What is the difference between a recursive and a non-recursive query in DNS? When is each type of query used.
    A recursive DNS will take the query and handle the whole request. If the DNS server
    does not contain the entry for a domain that is being looked up it will send
    a query to one of it's root DNS server and get the answer from there.

    A non-recursive DNS wont ask any other DNS server for the answer. If it does not
    contain the entry for the domain it will just answer with a referral to it's root servers.

d) What is the purpose of delegation in DNS.
    The purpose of delegation is to get the query to the correct zone. For example
    the .com domain to the .example.com zone to the .abc.example.com zone.

    This also helps performance in a DNS server, now the DNS server that is responsible
    for .abc.example.com will handle the request instead of the DNS server responsible for
    the .com domain.


e) What is a resource record? What does a resource record consist of.
    A resource record is a mapping between a domain name ( FQDN ) and its IP address.
    There are many types of records, for example the A record that consist of the FQDN
    and the IP address.

f) DNS messages contain answer, authority and additional sections. What is the purpose of each section.
    The answer section contains the record for the query.
    The authority section contains the nameservers that are responsible for the record
    The additional contains the IP addresses of the nameservers that are contained in the
    authority section.

g) How does the DNS protocol indicate if an answer comes from an authoritative name server or not? How does the DNS protocol indicate whether a query is recursive or not.
    If the AA ( Authoritative Answer Flag ) is set to 1 it indicates
    that the answer comes from an authorative name server.

    If the RD ( Recursion Desired ) is set it used recursive, when you send a request
    you can set the RD to 1 to note that you want recursion if it's available.

h) Explain what glue records are and when they are necessary.
    Glue records are necessary to not create a circular dependency ( a loop ).
    They provide the IP address for the name servers.

1-3 Which zone in DNS contains PTR records corresponding to IP addresses in the network 10.131.24.64/27? Name some other networks that have PTR records in the same zone. What is the problem with delegating authority over the DNS records corresponding only to 10.131.24.64/27.
    If you run nslookup on the IP you get the zone 64.24.131.10.in-addr.arpa
    That network has 2^5 ip addresses = 32 ip addresses, so from 10.131.24.64 - 10.131.24.95

    Another network that could be in the same zone 10.131.24.80/28
    That network has 2^4 ip addresses = 16 ip addresses, so from 10.131.24.80 - 10.131.24.95
    As we can see they are in the same zone (same IP addresses)
